feat(blog): add draft for August 2024 Fine Grained News (#822)
openfga/openfga.dev: blog/fine-grained-news-2024-08.md

---
title: Fine Grained News - August 2024
description: Fine Grained News
slug: fine-grained-news-2024-08
date: 2024-08-30
authors: hello-caleb
tags: [newsletter]
image: https://openfga.dev/img/og-rich-embed.png
hide_table_of_contents: false
---
# Fine Grained News

Welcome to the August 2024 edition of Fine Grained News! We are excited to bring you the latest updates, features, and community highlights from OpenFGA. 

## Just Shipped!

> * **OpenFGA v1.6.0:** The [latest OpenFGA release](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/releases/tag/v1.6.0) enables support for [query consistency options](https://openfga.dev/docs/interacting/consistency) and included additional performance enhancements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **OpenFGA v1.6.0:** The [latest OpenFGA release](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/releases/tag/v1.6.0) enables support for [query consistency options](https://openfga.dev/docs/interacting/consistency) 
```

we didn't just enabled support, we made it the default: https://github.com/openfga/openfga/commit/15a2a97048fd981abd55bf98b57816f616e99080

Reviewer 2: @miparnisari yeah, but I think we never shipped a release where you could turn them on after v1.5.9

Author: Thanks for the clarification, @miparnisari. Should this be clarified, @aaguiarz?

Reviewer 2: I changed "included" for "includes", and I think that's fine. OpenFGA 1.6 is already released so we can publish this now.

Author: Thanks for the input

> * **Query Consistency Options in SDKs:** All OpenFGA SDKs now support specifying [a query consistency parameter](https://openfga.dev/docs/interacting/consistency) for OpenFGA query endpoints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Query Consistency Options in SDKs:** All OpenFGA SDKs now support specifying [a query consistency parameter](https://openfga.dev/docs/interacting/consistency) for OpenFGA query endpoints. Make sure to update to the latest versions of the SDKs and OpenFGA to take advantage of this feature.
```

> * **Metrics Telemetry for SDKs:** We already supported OpenTelemetry metrics in the [Python](https://github.com/openfga/python-sdk/) and [Javascript](https://github.com/openfga/js-sdk/). We’ve just added support in [the Java SDK](https://github.com/openfga/java-sdk/releases/tag/v0.6.1), and [the GO SDK](https://github.com/openfga/go-sdk/releases/v0.6.0). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Metrics Telemetry for SDKs:** We already supported OpenTelemetry metrics in the [Python](https://github.com/openfga/python-sdk/) and [Javascript](https://github.com/openfga/js-sdk/) SDKs. We’ve just added support in [the Java SDK](https://github.com/openfga/java-sdk/releases/tag/v0.6.1), and [the GO SDK](https://github.com/openfga/go-sdk/releases/v0.6.0).
```

## Security Advisory

We recently addressed a security issue, identified as GHSA-3f6g-m4hr-59h8, that was present in OpenFGA v1.5.7 and v1.5.8. This issue has been fixed starting v1.5.9, and we strongly recommend all users update to the latest version to ensure their systems remain secure. For more details, please refer to the [security advisory](https://github.com/openfga/openfga/security/advisories/GHSA-3f6g-m4hr-59h8) on our GitHub page.

## In Progress

* [Support for OpenTelemetry tracing and logging](https://github.com/openfga/roadmap/issues/41)
* [Performance Improvements for OpenFGA queries](https://github.com/openfga/roadmap/issues/61)  
* [Additional OpenFGA API Authorization Options](https://github.com/openfga/roadmap/issues/30)  

> * [SQLite Storage Adapter](https://github.com/openfga/roadmap/issues/56), thanks [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) for the contribution!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [SQLite Storage Adapter](https://github.com/openfga/roadmap/issues/56), thanks to [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) for the contribution!
```

> Curious about what’s coming next for OpenFGA? Check out our [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/openfga/projects/1/views/1) so you can see what’s in store. We also welcome your feature requests and ideas in [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/openfga/discussions/categories/ideas).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Curious about what’s coming next for OpenFGA? Check out our [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/openfga/projects/1/views/1) to see what’s in store. We also welcome your feature requests and ideas in [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/openfga/discussions/categories/ideas).
```

## Community Highlights

* **CNCF Security TAG:** This month, [Andrés Aguiar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaguiar/) presented OpenFGA to the [CNCF Security Technical Advisory Group (TAG)](https://tag-security.cncf.io/), where he discussed the project's current [status](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1339) and showcased various use cases. You can see the presentation deck [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-TFfvKPi3jJ-jO-bjsHb3Soj_kKcQCf4Y_UvST7z744/edit#slide=id.p). It’s a great way to see how OpenFGA is being utilized and what’s on the horizon for the project.

> * **API Security: APISIX + OpenFGA:** Check out this [blog post](https://dev.to/kaankahraman/supercharging-api-security-apisix-with-openfga-45da) by Kaan Kahraman on enhancing API security by integrating APISIX with OpenFGA.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **API Security: APISIX + OpenFGA:** Check out this [blog post](https://dev.to/kaankahraman/supercharging-api-security-apisix-with-openfga-45da) by Kaan Kahraman on enhancing API security by integrating [APISIX](https://apisix.apache.org/) with OpenFGA.
```

### OpenFGA Service Providers

We’ve added a new section within the Adopters list for those offering OpenFGA [implementation services](https://github.com/openfga/community/blob/main/ADOPTERS.md#companies-offering-openfga-implementation-services). If your organization wants help adopting OpenFGA, this resource can connect you with professionals specializing in our technology. If your company provides implementation services for OpenFGA, we invite you to add your details by sending us a PR!  Please note that the listed companies have not been individually evaluated or endorsed by the OpenFGA project, and inclusion on the list does not imply endorsement.

### Announcements

* **OpenFGA Joins Docker-Sponsored Open Source Program:** We’re excited to share that OpenFGA has been accepted into the Docker-Sponsored Open Source Program! This partnership allows us to distribute [our container image](https://hub.docker.com/r/openfga/openfga) more efficiently and securely, ensuring that our community can easily access and trust the latest versions of OpenFGA on Docker Hub with higher rate limits.

> * **2024 Community Survey Participation:** A huge thank you to everyone who participated in the 2024 Community Survey! Your insights are invaluable in helping us shape the future of OpenFGA. We truly appreciate the time and thought you put into sharing your experiences and suggestions. Remember, we always welcome feedback across our [community channels](https://openfga.dev/community)—your input is what drives us forward.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **2024 Community Survey Participation:** A huge thank you to everyone who participated in the 2024 Community Survey! Your insights are invaluable in helping us shape the future of OpenFGA. We truly appreciate the time and thought you put into sharing your experiences and suggestions. Remember, we always welcome feedback across our [community channels](https://openfga.dev/community) — your input is what drives us forward.  
```

> * **Monthly Community Meeting:** Join us for our monthly Community Meetings, held on the second Thursday of every month at 11 AM Eastern Time (US). Our next meeting is on Thursday, September 12, 2024. These meetings are a fantastic opportunity to stay updated with the latest developments, ask questions, and engage with the OpenFGA community. You can find the link to the meeting invite [here](https://openfga.dev/docs/community\#monthly-community-meetings). We look forward to seeing you there!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Monthly Community Meeting:** Join us for our monthly Community Meetings, held on the second Thursday of every month at 11 AM Eastern Time (US). Our next meeting is on Thursday, September 12, 2024. These meetings are a fantastic opportunity to stay updated with the latest developments, ask questions, and engage with the OpenFGA community. You can find the link to the meeting invite [here](https://openfga.dev/docs/community#monthly-community-meetings). We look forward to seeing you there!
```
